---
layout: post-with-map
title: Malta!
---

<p class="intro"><span class="dropcap">I</span> wasn't sure what to expect with Malta, but what I got was a pleasant surprise.</p>

After a slightly nerve-wracking wait for a taxi this morning that was quite late but eventually showed up, we were delivered to Heathrow Terminal 4 at speeds which I am sure are above the legal limit and proceeded to run thruogh the familiar procedure of getting on a plane. What was pleasantly surprising was the complete lack of a line, anywhere. We allowed for two and a half hours to be processed through baggage drop-off and customs at Heathrow, and we spent in total probably 30 minutes from start to finish. This allowed us a long time to have our final English breakfast in the airport terminal.

The flight to Malta was uneventful and at just under three hours hardly seemed like a bother at all. Arriving to Malta was just as easy as leaving Heathrow: the longest we waited in any line, anywhere, was through customs, but only because the people ahead of us needed their passports double-checked.

We had organised with our gracious AirBNB host to pick us up from the airport to deliver us straight to our residence in Sliema. This was a great way to be introduced to Malta; by a local. We had a bit of banter about this and that and learned what we needed to learn about where we were staying and the surrounding area.

Our accomodation here is starkly in contrast with that of London: there, we stayed in a tiny shoebox above a shop. Literally the entire thing was a single room with a bathroom. In Sliema, we paid less money and what we ended up with was a three-storey traditional Maltese townhouse complete with roof terrace, spiral stone staircase, two bedrooms, and a proper loungeroom and kitchen. To say I was impressed by this change of scenery would be an understatement.

Despite all that, we didn't waste too much time admiring our lodgings and headed out to the streets of Sliema almost immediately. The place literally is another world when compared to London and Paris. Maltese people are kind of like Australians in a lot of ways. Imagine an Italian person with the laid-back attitude of an Australian; that's my impression of the Maltese. We didn't do much in particular aside from walk around Marsamxett Harbour admiring the architecture and stark contrast between earth and sea in Malta.

One thing in particular we did do though was try traditional Maltese food for dinner: Maltese wine (yum) with a signature dish of Malta; rabbit stew (tastes like chicken), followed up with a traditional Maltese dessert (pastry stuffed with a fruity paste, honestly reminded me of 'Fruit Pillow' biscuits, but a lot better tasting).
