---
layout: post-with-map
title: Venice
---

<p class="intro"><span class="dropcap">S</span>t. Johann's Church in Santa Magdalena, Italy. A quaint little church in the middle of nowhere at the foot of the Italian alps.</p>

This was our stopover destination today while we were on our way back north to start the journey back to Munich to close out our holiday... but not yet. I don't know anything about St. Johann's Church except that I saw a photo of it on the internet and decided that I wanted to go there and see it for myself. That has been the beauty of this holiday so far for me. I literally spent the weeks leading up to it reading sites like "amazingplacesonearth.com" and then Googling for the locations of things and then deciding whether I wanted to go there or not.

Some people have told us that we were silly for wanting to drive around on our holiday or that going on a European holiday at this time of year will be too cold etc. I have not felt that as being remotely close to the mark. We have been able to experience Europe in ways that I think someone from Australia should experience Europe: about the same level of population density, even at popular landmarks, due to the start of low-season; cold-but-not-freezing weather, so you can buy yourself a coat and a beanie and a scarf and wear them without looking like a try-hard fashion victim strutting your stuff down Queen St Mall in your Roger David catalogue outfit because when you stand in the shade the temperature might dip below 10°C long enough to vaguely justify your purchase... and breathe... where was I going with that... I don't remember.

Anyway, even though our holiday is coming to a close I don't feel we have wasted a second of time here. Yes we have done a lot of driving (by the time we finish, probably around 6000 kilometres in total, I haven't been keeping track); but everywhere we have driven has literally been a new experience for us as we have never driven there before.

Yes we have had to "slum it" living in a campervan for a month but that in itself has taught Carly and I many things about ourselves and each other that we might not have previously known. Such as, yes we can actually live in a tiny space for a month and not kill each other (... yet... still a few days chance for that...).

Even when we are faced with trying circumstances such as driving toward Großglockner (Grossglockner) High Alpine road with no real idea of how to get on the road or what kind of conditions we might face... and realizing we arrived too late for entry (last entrance at 4:15PM), so you have to drive around a tiny unknown alpine town looking for a place to park your giant campervan and all you see are "NO WOHNMOBILE" ('No Campervan') signs everywhere and you start getting really frustrated and you're tired from driving all day and then your wife spots a tiny little sign that says 'Camping' on it and you follow that one to another one and then you drive down a scary little tree-lined road in the twilight of evening and you find a campsite and then you go to open the door to the reception building and it's locked so you sigh heavily and head back to your campervan and then you hear a man say something in German you don't understand and you look behind you and there is your saviour: an old Austrian man who you can't understand who suddenly says out of nowhere "Camping? OK!" and points you toward an entirely empty paddock... and then you drive over to the paddock and you see you have an entire camp ground to yourself save for one other couple in a little caravan... and you sigh another sigh of relief and remember life is good.

And then you remember you don't have anything to eat for dinner so you literally run back up the hill you just came down back to the centre of the little town and you buy some groceries from a girl who doesn't speak a word of English so you just keep smiling at her and drop an, I'm sure, heavily-accented "dànké" (German for 'thank-you') and carry your groceries (including an €11 bottle of Austrian wine) back down the hill through the dark streets and the dark tree-lined roads and you nearly slip over three times on the nearly-frosted-over bitumen... but you make it back to your campervan fine and your wife has cooked dinner already because you had more food than you thought... and then you drink the wine... and then you realize, really, that life is good.


