---
layout: post-with-map
title: Venice
---

<p class="intro"><span class="dropcap">T</span>he Floating City as it can otherwise be known is a curiosity of human behaviour.</p>

Originally founded by Byzantine fishermen and farmers who sought refuge from invading Germanic and Hun forces, Venice has a long history starting around 500 A.D. Just think: this silly city exists today because people chose to live in a swamp to avoid being harmed.

But not only that, it was transformed from a swamp dwellers shack town into Europe's largest city during the high middle ages and went on to become one of the most important and richest cities during the 15th, 16th and 17th centuries due to is centrality to trade routes; and with that was also important during the Renaissance. Marco Polo had a house here apparently.

I learned all this from our tour guide. We opted to partake in a three hour walking tour of the city and we learned a lot about Venice and its people and history. It was a great experience and it leaves me wondering what kind of place Venice really was for the last thousand years.

I'm also highly interested in the engineering aspects regarding how such a city can exist built on top of thousands of wooden poles driven into the mud. Actually the wood is deprived of oxygen and does not really degrade, but the point remains that the foundations of Venice are made from tree trunks which are 800 years old. This is just one aspect of the overall silliness of Venice... others include building houses with fireplaces on the first floor and up (the bottom floor was always a storage area because there is no basement in a house built on water); all the buildings bow outwards as they get higher to increase floorspace in upper levels without reducing street space; people today still have mail delivered by gondola; the public hospital is inside a building which is hundreds of years old complete with marble columns in the entrance hall; people used to get fresh water from cisterns which were built into the marsh - rainwater would collect in public squares, drain through a sand filter and into a well-like cistern... just silliness. 

You could spend a year in Venice photographing the place, unfortunately we only had a day. I would like to go back with a better camera and a tripod.