---
layout: post-with-map
title: What a day!
---

<p class="intro"><span class="dropcap">A</span> long day of driving was punctuated by a visit to Mont Saint-Michel.</p>

Wow! Well, we didn't quite make our overnight target of Rouen last night but we came within 45 minutes of it. So this morning we woke at 6.30AM and kept going. Carly drove a lot of the way today, giving me a bit of a rest. 

We arrived at Mont Saint-Michel -- well, we arrived at the remote carpark -- around 10AM and were right on time to catch a 'free' shuttle bus (parking is €20.90) from the car park to the 'island'.

A very good thing has been done with Mont Saint-Michel: the coastal land between solid ground and the mount have been left untouched. The sandy moors are as they have always been. No parking near the mount. No shops, no hotels, nothing. All that stuff is w.5km back on solid earth. It doesn't spoil the view and it doesn't ruin the environment around the area.

Mont Saint-Michel itself is an amazing place. It's not really an island as it is accessible by foot for 99% of the year. It's only during a few particular days of high tide that it is truly surrounded by water - but even then you can still walk through it. However that's not the point. The island citadel was always impregnable because the shallow waters and sandy mud surrounding it were impassable by tallship and horse alike, so no assaults were possible by anything other than what weapons a man could carry on his back.

Actually being an abbey, the island never saw a lot of action, but it was turned into a prison for a few hundred years until the late 1800s. What amazed me about Mont Saint-Michel was the extensive restoration works performed to keep as much of the whole island as accessible as possible. Though all of the buildings are made from granite which lasts better than the softer stone we have seen at previous castles, the entire place being exposed to the full brunt of ocean weather does take its toll.

Anyway, we did a tour of the abbey and were impressed by how large a place it is and by how many different rooms there are and by the diversity of the architecture of each room. The building site being limited to the mount meant that everything had to be built around the mount and around existing structures, so unlike a lot of other medieval structures there are actually multiple floors on top of each other like in a modern style  building. The place is entirely surreal.

We then started the journey to our first French chateau, Château de Chenonceau, and stopped in Le Mans for dinner and a photo. I am now writing this post from the campervan parking area just outside the grounds of Chenonceau...
