---
layout: post-with-map
title: London! And a show!
---

<p class="intro"><span class="dropcap">B</span>uckingham Palace. Not a place I thought I'd be terribly interested in.</p>

But I was, at least, for a while. Carly and I, along with thousands of others, went to see the changing of the guard outside the residence of the Queen of England and the Royal Family. I had initially thought it would be a quaint little ceremony where you see some shuffling and a small March, but in actual fact it's quite the event with police coordinating vehicle and pedestrian traffic on horseback, a marching band, and a whole ceremony of marching and commanding and falling into regiment - and they do this every day! The ceremony itself wasn't much to see but the songs played by the marching band are amusing at least; I've not seen a more ridiculous scenario than the contrast of the stern, authoritative mounted metro police yelling at tourists perched on the war memorial fountain to 'get off the memorial' outside the former most powerful seat of civilization while a marching band plays a spectacular rendition of "Fat Bottomed Girls" presumably within earshot of the Queen herself.

After the ceremony finished we walked through Trafalgar Square toward our high-tea destination, BB Bakery, where we met a nice English gentleman and chatted about all manner of topics ranging from rugby to cricket to Formula 1 to politics to travel to Australia and Europe. Unfortunately for my sense of humour he had lived in Perth for ten years so was not easily impressed by an Australian accent.

From here we headed home to freshen up for an evening at the Prince of Wales theatre where we saw The Book of Mormon. Carly loved it but the less I say about it the better.

We had dinner in the coolest pub, Waxy O'Connors, whose themed rooms, bars, nooks and crannies were filled with thematic paraphernalia which evoked a genuine sense of "old timey England" without the grubbiness and dreariness which can oft accompany that sort of thing.